README.md, before:

# NAME

node-sqlite3 - Asynchronous, non-blocking [SQLite3](http://sqlite.org/) bindings for [node.js](https://github.com/joyent/node) 0.2-0.4 (versions 2.0.x), **0.6.13+, 0.8.x, and 0.10.x** (versions 2.1.x).

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/developmentseed/node-sqlite3.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/developmentseed/node-sqlite3)
[![npm package version](https://badge.fury.io/js/sqlite3.png)](https://npmjs.org/package/sqlite3)


# USAGE

Install with `npm install sqlite3`.

``` js
var sqlite3 = require('sqlite3').verbose();
var db = new sqlite3.Database(':memory:');

db.serialize(function() {
  db.run("CREATE TABLE lorem (info TEXT)");

  var stmt = db.prepare("INSERT INTO lorem VALUES (?)");
  for (var i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
      stmt.run("Ipsum " + i);
  }
  stmt.finalize();

  db.each("SELECT rowid AS id, info FROM lorem", function(err, row) {
      console.log(row.id + ": " + row.info);
  });
});

db.close();
```



# FEATURES

* Straightforward query and parameter binding interface
* Full Buffer/Blob support
* Extensive [debugging support](https://github.com/developmentseed/node-sqlite3/wiki/Debugging)
* [Query serialization](https://github.com/developmentseed/node-sqlite3/wiki/Control-Flow) API
* [Extension support](https://github.com/developmentseed/node-sqlite3/wiki/Extensions)
* Big test suite
* Written in modern C++ and tested for memory leaks



# API

See the [API documentation](https://github.com/developmentseed/node-sqlite3/wiki) in the wiki.


# INSTALLING

You can use [`npm`](https://github.com/isaacs/npm) to download and install:

* The latest `sqlite3` package: `npm install sqlite`

* GitHub's `master` branch: `npm install https://github.com/developmentseed/node-sqlite3/tarball/master`

In both cases the module is automatically built with npm's internal version of `node-gyp`,
and thus your system must meet [node-gyp's requirements](https://github.com/TooTallNate/node-gyp#installation).

You can also make your own build of `sqlite3` from the source (see the next section for details).


# BUILDING

Unless building via `npm install` (which uses its own `node-gyp`) you will need `node-gyp` installed globally:

    npm install node-gyp -g

The sqlite3 module depends only on libsqlite3. However, by default, an internal/bundled copy of sqlite will be built and statically linked, so an externally installed sqlite3 is not required.

If you wish to install against an external sqlite then you need to pass the `--sqlite` argument to `node-gyp`, `npm install` or the `configure` wrapper.

    ./configure --sqlite=/usr/local
    make

Or, using the node-gyp directly:

     node-gyp --sqlite=/usr/local
     make

Or, using npm:

     npm install --sqlite=/usr/local

If building against an external sqlite3 make sure to have the development headers available. Mac OS X ships with these by default. If you don't have them installed, install the `-dev` package with your package manager, e.g. `apt-get install libsqlite3-dev` for Debian/Ubuntu. Make sure that you have at least `libsqlite3` >= 3.6.

Note, if building against homebrew-installed sqlite on OS X you can do:

    ./configure --sqlite=/usr/local/opt/sqlite/
    make


# TESTING

[mocha](https://github.com/visionmedia/mocha) is required to run unit tests.

In sqlite3's directory (where its `package.json` resides) run the following:

    npm install mocha
    npm test



# CONTRIBUTORS

* [Konstantin Käfer](https://github.com/kkaefer)
* [Dane Springmeyer](https://github.com/springmeyer)
* [Will White](https://github.com/willwhite)
* [Orlando Vazquez](https://github.com/orlandov)
* [Artem Kustikov](https://github.com/artiz)
* [Eric Fredricksen](https://github.com/grumdrig)
* [John Wright](https://github.com/mrjjwright)
* [Ryan Dahl](https://github.com/ry)
* [Tom MacWright](https://github.com/tmcw)
* [Carter Thaxton](https://github.com/carter-thaxton)
* [Audrius Kažukauskas](https://github.com/audriusk)
* [Johannes Schauer](https://github.com/pyneo)
* [Mithgol](https://github.com/Mithgol)



# ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Thanks to [Orlando Vazquez](https://github.com/orlandov),
[Eric Fredricksen](https://github.com/grumdrig) and
[Ryan Dahl](https://github.com/ry) for their SQLite bindings for node, and to mraleph on Freenode's #v8 for answering questions.

Development of this module is sponsored by [Development Seed](http://developmentseed.org/).


# LICENSE

`node-sqlite3` is [BSD licensed](https://github.com/developmentseed/node-sqlite3/raw/master/LICENSE).

Commit message:

a couple of minor changes in README
Node's website http://nodejs.org/ is hyperlinked instead of the engine's GitHub repository.

A local hyperlink to the “INSTALLING” section is introduced instead of less detailed `npm install sqlite3`.

README.md, after:

# NAME

node-sqlite3 - Asynchronous, non-blocking [SQLite3](http://sqlite.org/) bindings for [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/) 0.2-0.4 (versions 2.0.x), **0.6.13+, 0.8.x, and 0.10.x** (versions 2.1.x).

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/developmentseed/node-sqlite3.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/developmentseed/node-sqlite3)
[![npm package version](https://badge.fury.io/js/sqlite3.png)](https://npmjs.org/package/sqlite3)


# USAGE

**Note:**   the module must be [installed](#installing) before use.

``` js
var sqlite3 = require('sqlite3').verbose();
var db = new sqlite3.Database(':memory:');

db.serialize(function() {
  db.run("CREATE TABLE lorem (info TEXT)");

  var stmt = db.prepare("INSERT INTO lorem VALUES (?)");
  for (var i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
      stmt.run("Ipsum " + i);
  }
  stmt.finalize();

  db.each("SELECT rowid AS id, info FROM lorem", function(err, row) {
      console.log(row.id + ": " + row.info);
  });
});

db.close();
```



# FEATURES

* Straightforward query and parameter binding interface
* Full Buffer/Blob support
* Extensive [debugging support](https://github.com/developmentseed/node-sqlite3/wiki/Debugging)
* [Query serialization](https://github.com/developmentseed/node-sqlite3/wiki/Control-Flow) API
* [Extension support](https://github.com/developmentseed/node-sqlite3/wiki/Extensions)
* Big test suite
* Written in modern C++ and tested for memory leaks



# API

See the [API documentation](https://github.com/developmentseed/node-sqlite3/wiki) in the wiki.


# INSTALLING

You can use [`npm`](https://github.com/isaacs/npm) to download and install:

* The latest `sqlite3` package: `npm install sqlite`

* GitHub's `master` branch: `npm install https://github.com/developmentseed/node-sqlite3/tarball/master`

In both cases the module is automatically built with npm's internal version of `node-gyp`,
and thus your system must meet [node-gyp's requirements](https://github.com/TooTallNate/node-gyp#installation).

You can also make your own build of `sqlite3` from the source (see the next section for details).


# BUILDING

Unless building via `npm install` (which uses its own `node-gyp`) you will need `node-gyp` installed globally:

    npm install node-gyp -g

The sqlite3 module depends only on libsqlite3. However, by default, an internal/bundled copy of sqlite will be built and statically linked, so an externally installed sqlite3 is not required.

If you wish to install against an external sqlite then you need to pass the `--sqlite` argument to `node-gyp`, `npm install` or the `configure` wrapper.

    ./configure --sqlite=/usr/local
    make

Or, using the node-gyp directly:

     node-gyp --sqlite=/usr/local
     make

Or, using npm:

     npm install --sqlite=/usr/local

If building against an external sqlite3 make sure to have the development headers available. Mac OS X ships with these by default. If you don't have them installed, install the `-dev` package with your package manager, e.g. `apt-get install libsqlite3-dev` for Debian/Ubuntu. Make sure that you have at least `libsqlite3` >= 3.6.

Note, if building against homebrew-installed sqlite on OS X you can do:

    ./configure --sqlite=/usr/local/opt/sqlite/
    make


# TESTING

[mocha](https://github.com/visionmedia/mocha) is required to run unit tests.

In sqlite3's directory (where its `package.json` resides) run the following:

    npm install mocha
    npm test



# CONTRIBUTORS

* [Konstantin Käfer](https://github.com/kkaefer)
* [Dane Springmeyer](https://github.com/springmeyer)
* [Will White](https://github.com/willwhite)
* [Orlando Vazquez](https://github.com/orlandov)
* [Artem Kustikov](https://github.com/artiz)
* [Eric Fredricksen](https://github.com/grumdrig)
* [John Wright](https://github.com/mrjjwright)
* [Ryan Dahl](https://github.com/ry)
* [Tom MacWright](https://github.com/tmcw)
* [Carter Thaxton](https://github.com/carter-thaxton)
* [Audrius Kažukauskas](https://github.com/audriusk)
* [Johannes Schauer](https://github.com/pyneo)
* [Mithgol](https://github.com/Mithgol)



# ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Thanks to [Orlando Vazquez](https://github.com/orlandov),
[Eric Fredricksen](https://github.com/grumdrig) and
[Ryan Dahl](https://github.com/ry) for their SQLite bindings for node, and to mraleph on Freenode's #v8 for answering questions.

Development of this module is sponsored by [Development Seed](http://developmentseed.org/).


# LICENSE

`node-sqlite3` is [BSD licensed](https://github.com/developmentseed/node-sqlite3/raw/master/LICENSE).
